THE ANC Women’s League called Esikhawini maths teacher Mlungisi Thusi (40) “a total pervert” after he received four life sentences for raping a pupil. Musa Dladla Region league chairperson Get Mbanjwa said she couldn’t recall the number of rape cases she has attended at Esikhawini court. “As a mother I worry about children who are rape victims and sometimes cannot sleep thinking about the emotional and physical abuse that they go through. Thusi is a total pervert who showed disrespect for us as women. We attended the court case because we wanted to demand justice. I can assure you that there is a rape case every second day at this court. This is the reason we have decided to have a prayer during the 16 days of activism,” she said. D.N. Sibiya, principal at Esikhalenisenkosi High School where Thusi taught, called the disgraced teacher troublesome. “Thusi had no respect for work and did not have a good pass rate each year because of his laziness,” said Sibiya. During Thusi’s sentencing on Wednesday in the Esikhawini Magistrate’s Court, magistrate T.S. Ngesi said Thusi had turned the 15-year-old girl he raped into a “sex slave”. Thusi was caught “red-handed” raping the pupil in Esikhawini’s Mzingwenya Forest in May 2012. Since his arrest he has remained in police custody. The court heard the girl was on her way to school when Thusi offered her a lift. He drove her to the forest, pulled a mat out of his car and raped her on the ground. He only stopped raping her when passers-by accosted him and called the police. Thusi, who is married and has seven children by various partners, said in an earlier court appearance the pupil was his girlfriend. Ngesi said Thusi did not care about the girl’s feelings and had not shown remorse for what he had done until his conviction on Tuesday. The magistrate said rape cases were “exceedingly prevalent” in the area. “Most rape cases which we deal with on a daily basis involve young children who are sometimes as young as two-months-old. “Unless the court imposes such sentences, people will fail to put their trust in the law. The sentence should be a deterrent and should not serve as a pat on the wrist,” said Ngesi. Thusi’s lawyer Amilia Bekker pleaded against a life sentence for her client. She said Thusi was a father of seven who was supporting children out of wedlock and whose mothers were unemployed. But Ngesi said Thusi should have thought about his family before committing the crime. Bekker told the court that Thusi was willing to pay R10 000 in reparation to the girl if he received his pension fund. But Ngesi was adamant. “If he had shown remorse the court case would not have dragged on for so long. The sentence must address the anger of the community,” he said. Thusi received a life term for each of four rapes the court was able to prove. They will run concurrently.