UMTSHEZI (Estcourt) IFP councillor Mthembeni Majola, who narrowly escaped a second assassination attempt on Sunday night, has accused KZN Community Safety MEC Willies Mchunu of being behind the attack. Majola, who is wheelchair-bound after being shot in 2010, was attacked by three gunmen with rifles at about 8.30 pm on Sunday night as he was turning into the street where he lived in Rensburg, Estcourt. He told The Witness a month ago that Mchunu had threatened the lives of the IFP and NFP members in the area because of the death in August of ANC councillor Jimmy Lembede. Mchunu denied the accusation at the time. Majola was returning home on Sunday after visiting family members when he was ambushed. He sustained injuries to his nose and left shoulder while his driver’s arm and face were also injured. After firing a volley of shots the gunmen ran off. The councillor’s 30-year-old son, who was also in the car, escaped unharmed. Yesterday, Majola stuck to his accusations. He said when he was shot in 2010 he had laid charges against certain NFP members, but later withdrew those charges because he realised he was wrong and now believes the ANC was behind that attack. He claims the Sunday night shooting was linked to the court appearance today of three suspects in the Lembede killing. He alleges that he was shot because he had given crucial evidence to the police Crime Intelligence Unit that it was not the current suspects, but ANC members themselves who could be implicated in Lembede’s murder. The suspects who are appearing for a bail application are linked to the NFP, with one being the brother of a sitting NFP councillor. Mchunu said he was shocked at the allegations and dismissed them. He condemned the shooting of Majola and said the police must act. “I have always spoken out strongly against political violence and I will urge the police to thoroughly investigate this shooting …” he said. Police spokesperson Colonel Jay Naicker confirmed that Estcourt police were investigating a case of attempted murder.