Pamela Mkhize A NONGOMA nurse is under police guard at Philani Private Hospital after he drank potassium following the alleged rape of his domestic worker. Speaking to The Witness, the maid said her life had been ruined. “I don’t think I will ever forget what he did to me,” she said. “The thought of this sends tears streaming down my face. He raped me and was threatening to shoot me if I screamed.” Neither the suspect nor the domestic worker may be named. He has yet to appear in court, while she is protected by law. The woman said her employer had promised to pay for her tertiary education fees as long as she kept the incident from his wife. “I just listened to him speak. I couldn’t say anything. I just wanted to get out of that room.” After the threats, she said the man then phoned his wife and told her what he had just done. “All I heard was him telling her goodbye. He said he was going to kill himself because he had just had sex with me. He told his wife this was a joke, but he didn’t see the point of living.” It was when a family friend came to inquire about the man’s whereabouts that the woman managed to escape. “He told me to wash my face so no one could see I had been crying. Then he gave me the bedroom key. I opened the door and ran for my life. I didn’t see the man that was knocking, just his car, but I just ran,” she said. The woman’s mother said she was devastated by what had happened. “My daughter took the job because we need the money. You hear about these things on the radio, but never think they will happen to your family.” Police spokesperson Constable Ncami Mhlongo said the man was arrested on Monday. He was taken to hospital after he started showing signs of having taken poison. She said a rope was also discovered at his home and police suspect he was going to hang himself after taking the potassium. Potassium comes in both solid and liquid form. It is unclear what type of potassium he ingested. Toxic effects from swallowing large quantities include acute renal failure, fever, muscle cramps and gastroenteritis and is fatal if left untreated. Mhlongo said the 20-year-old woman had been working for the family for about a month. The nurse (38) is married with three children. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  