Rebeccan van der Linde MOUNTAIN BIKING TEAM Contego’s Phillip Buys made it two in a row when he won the second event in the three-part Momentum Health XCO Internationals at Karkloof Falls last Saturday. Buys showed superb form and skill over the testing seven-lap course and faced a strong challenge from a top international field, but it was the feisty young James Reid (Nedbank 360Life) who took the lead at the end of lap three before Buys bit back, clocking his fastest laps in the second half of the race. French rider Cedric Ravenel (Team GT Skoda) took third place. The presence of Team GT Skoda made for exciting racing in the women’s Pro Elite event. Cecile Ravenel (France) and Lene Byberg (Norway) controlled the race, but it was Ravenel who claimed 26 seconds back with South Africa’s best, Yolande Speedy (USN), placing third. The juniors showed top-class racing with several international riders in the line-up, which gave local riders the opportunity to pit themselves against overseas competition. Kyle Dorkin (Ellsworth SA) claimed the honours in the Junior Men’s race. Savannah Vosloo (BMC) took the win in the Junior Women. The third and final event in the Momentum Health XCO Internationals takes place at Cascades this weekend. CYCLING The Time Freight SA Vets, Masters and Schools Championship takes place between March 22 and March 25. Competitors should note that there has been a slight change to the time trial route due to the late notification of a swimming gala at King’s Park swimming pool. For details log on to www.cyclingsa.com Entries have closed and no late entries will be accepted. For details call KZN road commissioner Kelvin du Sart at 082 446 9833 or Michelle Matthews at 084 407 5566. Pietermaritzburg is fast becoming a recognised location for all that is cycling. This is affirmed by the announcement of the 2012 CSA KZN All Africa Challenge, scheduled to take place in the KZN capital from April 25-30. Three major cycling events will form part of the event — BMX, track cycling and mountain biking. Alexandra Park will host the BMX and track racing, while Cascades will host the mountain bike challenges. No CSA racing licence is required. Details can be found at www.midlandstour.co.za. MULTISPORT Claude Eksteen claimed a well-deserved win at the Midlands Ultra held at Midmar Dam last weekend. With poor weather predicted, athletes were surprisingly greeted to an ideal day as they lined up for the 1,9 km swim. Glen Gore took the lead from the gun with Eksteen close behind. Gerhard de Bruin and Andre Booyens were safely packed into the chase group as the swimmers tackled the warm, choppy waters of Midmar Dam. Gore exited the water in a little under 20 minutes, with Eksteen a further 40 seconds back. De Bruin and Booyens were around two minutes off the swim leaders’ pace at that stage. The athletes then turned to the four-loop, 90 km bike leg, which is seen as both testing but fast. Gore held the lead on the bike until halfway into the second lap before De Bruin caught and passed him. Booyens was trying to keep pace with De Bruin, who was hammering along trying to build up a substantial lead before the start of the run. Eksteen remained in and around fifth position on the bike, biding his time before his strongest discipline came into play. Off the bike, De Bruin was cruising and looked to have the race in the bag. Booyens had claimed second spot and was looking comfortable. It was, however, Eksteen who ran all the boys down, having started the run a good couple of minutes down on the leaders. The women’s race was equally exciting, with the powerhouse, Dianne Emery, destroying the field to take the win ahead of Corinne Berg and Sue Chapman. Emery was made to work at the start, with Berg exiting the water first. Emery clawed her way back on the bike before the start of the run. Her 1:28 run split was indeed faster than most of the top men and she cruised to victory. Berg placed second with local triathlete Sue Chapman third. Athletes are already talking about the second leg of the Midlands Ultra Series, which takes place at the same venue in October. For more info visit www.bactive.com. Cordwalles is presenting the third event in the aQuelle Mudman Series at Orient Park, Midmar Dam, next Sunday. The Cordwalles Parent’s Association is going all out to make sure this year’s is the best yet, it being their centenary year. The “Cordies Crew” have already done the groundwork to ensure that this year’s aQuellé Mudman is as exciting and challenging as ever. Adrenalin is not only for serious athletes, and the aQuelle Mudman is geared for family participation, with events to cater for every level of athlete. Entries at www.roag.co.za; for more info visit www.cordwalles.co.za.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.