Harare - Zimbabwean state attorneys say forensic investigations have found no evidence of explosives or inflammable liquids used in the house fire death of a powerful general whose family believes he may have been murdered.Retired General Solomon Mujuru, husband of Zimbabwe's vice president, was burned beyond recognition in a bedroom fire at his farmhouse outside Harare last year.At an inquest on Monday, a state attorney said DNA tests proved the remains were Mujuru's. Samples from the scene were tested by forensic experts in South Africa.Mujuru's death intensified infighting in the party of President Robert Mugabe, where the general was a powerful figure who used his military, political and business connections to promote his wife's battle for supremacy. This was to eb expected. When ZANU-PF comit political murders the police will neveer un-cover them. its a pariah state and come on who were the investigators? Another Zimbabwean "accident" Yep, Mugabes opponents seem to be very accident prone...strange that Information that leaked out was that Solomon Mujuru (using the chimerenga or 'nom de guerre' at the time) murdered the ZANLA (military wing of ZANU-PF) Josiah Tongagara in Mozambique and ordered his body to be chopped with axes to make it look like he'd died in a car accident. Majuru then took over as army commander when Mugabe took over in Zim... What sticks out is that the forensic people don't say what could have caused the fire. Where was the body when it was found? If in bed then I wonder why he didn't try and escape (he was known to be a heavy drinker though). Heh Rex, kama can be a bitch evev if it takes 32 years. Yeah, yeah and if you believe that, you will believe anything - windows at almost floor level and a person cannot escape indeed!! They are experts at murder. Herpes is a very common STD. Also, it seems that the sexy guys and girls are easier to? get Herpes. A friend of mine who used to work for match. com and now works for the largest Herpes singles dating site datingpoz...C M tells me that the ratio of good-looking members on datingpoz.C M higher than the ratio of Match. @Eva, Poppy, you don't have to push it, we can see you are blonde!!!